hello I'm Nikki schill welcome to the
program we start this hour with the
latest developments in the Middle East
President Biden has promised Israel
Ironclad United States support amid
fears that Iran could launch reprisals
for an attack that killed senior
Iranians Us Media are reporting that an
American General visit Israel on
Thursday to discuss Washington's fears
President Biden warned at Iran is
threatening to launch a significant
attack after Israel struck the Iranian
Consulate in Syria 10 days ago Mr Biden
was speaking hours after the Iranian
supreme leader again said Israel would
be punished for the strike on its
consulate meanwhile the Hamas political
leader ishmail hania says there'll be no
change in the group's demands for a
permanent ceas fight in Gaza despite the
killing of three of his sons in an
Israeli air strike Israeli media is
reporting that the Prime Minister
Benjamin Netanyahu had not been briefed
in advance of the attack this video is
believed to show Ismael hania receiving
the news in Qatar where he lives in
Exile Israel has confirmed the strike
describing the Suns as Hamas military
operatives he's been actively involved
in negotiations to broker a ceasefire
with Israel demanding a permanent end to
the fighting and the return of displaced
Palestinians to their homes we'll assess
the implications of the killing of his
sons in a moment first his President
Biden on the threat posed by Iran in the
region we also want to address the
Iranian threat to launch a sign they're
threatening to launch a significant
attack on Israel as I told prime
minister
Netanyahu our commitment to Israel's
security against these threats from Iran
and his proxies is Ironclad let me say
it again Ironclad we're going to do all
we can to protect Israel's security
let's go live to our Middle East
correspondent Hugo Bea who is in
Jerusalem we heard President Biden there
Hugo there are real fears now over what
Iran might do and the possibility of the
conflict spreading wider in the
region yeah and it's very interesting
that over the last few days American
officials have been saying that they
believe this possible Iranian uh
response to that attack in Damascus is a
matter of when and not if and uh
obviously you know we don't know what
the Iranians are planning to do they
have this network of factions across the
region the socalled axes of resistance
which includes Hezbollah in Lebanon the
houthis in Yemen uh factions in Iraq and
Syria and all those players have already
been involved in this conflict Hezbollah
for example has been attacking Israel
from Lebanon almost every day but I
think the fear here is that Iran may be
planning to launch an attack by itself
uh you know from its own territory and
that could be involving um missiles and
drones and uh Israeli officials have
been saying that uh they are going to
retaliate to any kind of attack coming
from uh Iran uh Israeli Authority said
they would give a significant response
and uh I think you know in another sign
of these concerns uh today the axio
website is reporting that the senior US
military commander in charge of the
Middle East is going to come to Israel
to have conversations with the Israeli
defense minister and also with u
military officials and I think what
President Biden was trying to say is
that despite uh the differences uh you
know between the Americans and the
Israelis over the you know the Israeli
conduct in the war in Gaza and we've
seen in the last few days you know the
level of frustration from America uh
with Israel with the Israeli Prime
Minister Benjamin Netanyahu President
Biden is saying that these two countries
remain very strong allies and that any
kind of Iranian attack on Israel would
trigger uh an American reaction if we
move now to that attack that killed the
three sons of hamas's political lead
what more do we know about the attack
itself yeah so is ha is saying that this
was a political assassination and that
uh you know his reaction was that you
know Israel would be delusional to think
that this would change uh you know the
position of Hamas in these ceasefire
negotiations I think you know the key
context here to this attack is that uh
this happened as you know uh we're
waiting to to hear from Hamas whether
they're going to accept you know the
ceasefire proposal that was put forward
after those mediat negotiations in Cairo
and uh at the heart of this proposal is
a six we ceasefire uh in the conflict in
Gaza uh and uh you know this would see
Hamas uh releasing you know 40 hostages
were being held in Gaza in return for
900 Palestinians were now being held in
Israeli jails but many obstacles remain
because it seems that Hamas has told
negotiators that it doesn't have you
know 40 hostages who fit the criteria
that has been you know set up in this
proposal you know female soldiers
elderly people people who are sick uh
and it seems that there's some
differences as well uh related to the
identity of the prisoners who are going
to be released so we're still waiting to
hear from Hamas but I think you know
Hamas has been sticking with its you
know demand that any kind of ceasefire
in Gaza should be permanent because you
know senior Hamas official said that
they believe that any kind of temporary
ceas fire would mean that once the
hostages are out the Israelis May return
to Gaza to finish the job and tried to
destroy Hamas so they want a permanent
ceasefire they want the end o of the war
but we're still waiting to see uh you
know how they're going to respond to
this latest proposal Hugo PGA at Middle
East correspondent live in Jerusalem
thank you